When building for the app stores the Expos Seelye.
So what we type here in the command line can help you or will help you but you might need to tweak your
configuration in the app Chase and fall depending on which features your application uses.
So our application here uses a bunch of native modules these modules all need to request permissions
and we kind of do this with the permissions API like for example in the image picker here when we ask
for permissions but for Android for example you also need to provide a list of the permissions your
app needs in a configuration file which you when you use React Native only half but which you don't
have when using Expo because Expo provides this wrapper and does all of that for you in the Expo client.
But now we don't plan on using the expo client anymore.
And whilst it will include this into your standalone app as I mentioned you now need to tell Expo which
permissions it should request there.
In addition for example if you're using Google Maps you also need to provide your Google Maps API key
and with that I don't mean as we're doing it here which we use in some parts of our jobs good code but
to use the react native maps package.
Again the expo client app basically uses its own key for development and so on but as soon as you plan
on offering a standalone app you need to bring your own keys so that the actual wrapper which will be
included in your stand alone app will use your key.
Because the expo team won't give you a key owned by them for that.
Again the overall docs are your friends.
Dairy can learn what you can set up in the app Chase and fall.
And let's start with Android because there you'll have to configure a bit more before we dive into what's
specific about ISIS.
So for Android besides icon and so on what you can configure dear are the permissions now.
The thing is you can just omit the permissions key and in that case as you see here expert will actually
setup your app to request all permissions.
Now I would not recommend doing that because people will look at your app in the App Store and if they
see that your basic place management app wants permissions to read their contacts or make calls.
Well I don't know about you but I wouldn't download such app.
So my recommendation would be that you are specific regarding the permissions your app needs and you
do that by going to your app Chase and file and they are in the Android node you at the permissions
key and now you add permissions.
Now some base permissions will always be requested you find these permissions here for example permissions
to get data from the Internet and so on but you can also for example add permissions to use the user
location and access to camera because that's something we will do.
So let's add these keys here to permissions like this to string keys with double quotes by the way that's
important in this file.
Added to this permissions array.
Now we will also need the right external storage permission to save our image so we should add that
as well.
And with that we should be good for a design application but of course depending on the application
your building carefully check which permissions your app will need.
You can always consult the documentation pages of the native module packages you're using there you
should normally find a description of the permissions.
This package needs so permissions are one thing.
In addition if you're using Google Maps you should add Google Maps.
Note to your Android configuration.
So here.
After permissions we can add Google maps like this which also holds an object as a value add in that
object.
You set up the API key.
Again you didn't need that for the Expo client when we published the app to this expo page and used
the expo Clyde app because they're the expert who basically gives you their own Google Maps key.
But if you're building a standalone app you need to provide your own one.
So for dad make sure you use your key here like this and all the important and I mentioned is in the
non Expo module already.
Make sure that in the Google API is so in the Google cloud console when you check your api library you
make sure that the maps SDK for Android is enabled for this project 4 2 which does API key you provided
belongs.
So here it is enabled.
This has to belong to the project for which you created that API key which you now are providing here.
Otherwise this won't work so these are the permissions and Google Maps settings and you might need our
specific settings which you can learn about.
He and the app change and evolve depending on which features you're using.
You can also configure Of course everything else and so many things.
One thing you absolutely need to provide to build your app is also this package key.
This is something you always have to add no matter what your app uses.
Here in the Android node you need to provide the package key and this now has to have a certain format.
It's basically a in words you are L a fictional you are L which doesn't have to exist but which acts
as a unique identifier across the entire Google Play store.
So it should be a inverse you are L which no one else has used before and therefore typically if you
own a domain you would use your domain for example com that academy and so an inverse domain and then
a unique identifier like great places you can come up with any you or l you want here.
But of course again it should be unique and you should therefore use your own domain where a fictional
domain which isn't owned by anyone.
So not Academy and because I do owned is so any other domain any are a fictional identifier which should
have this format.
That's what you provide here.
You also need to provide something similar on Iowa's deer.
If you go to Iowa as you don't need to provide this permission setting stuff because I w permissions
work differently.
You would need to provide a Google Maps API key if you use to Google Maps where you know if the maps
package for I was the default of this package however is to use Apple Maps and I haven't changed as
in my app so I don't need to provide Google Maps API here.
But what you definitely need to provide here is a bundle identifier so replace package with bundled
identifier and the format is the same.
You have to is in words you are L syntax here and a name ID column Academy in great places cause and
also use that dash course edition here on Android.
So bundle identifier for ISIS and package for Android needs to be set to such a inverse unique you are
El and besides these identifiers you also need to set something else on.
IOW you need to add a build no all here the IRS note therefore and the build number should be a string
which identifies your build the error you should have a build number just like this version up there
and working in the way I explained it up there.
So it should be a no consisting of three digits where you have a patch number four.
Well patches back fixes then this minor update number for new features which don't break everything
though enters major update number.
You can change this however you want but you should change it for every new words and you publish and
you deploy and you should of course change it such that you reflect what changed.
Now you need something similar for Android.
If we go back to the Android documentation there we all need a working code so here we add word in code.
And now here this is not a string but a number which you should simply increment by one for every new
release.
So you started one.
The next version you release even if it's just containing some tiny fixes should be two and then two
free ends on.
So that's what you should set up here does how it works for Android y'all to find that description here
in the documentation.
And with that we're now prepared to deploy this or to build it first.
And as I mentioned the cool thing about Expo managed is that now you can build this on exposed cloud
servers.
So what you should do is you should run Expo publish to publish the latest version of your app to expose
servers just like that which will not yet build it as a standalone app.
Now what it get here are a couple of warnings or errors that we see that Android should not have additional
property Google Maps
Yeah because that should be in a conflict note.
My mistake.
So you should add config here and in config you might have to Google Maps key.
That's a tiny mistake on my side and here for the package Android actually doesn't like dashes in there
but you may use underscores so let's use this with that fixed now let's run Expo publish again to again
validate this and then publish the most recent version.
Q expos servers which again will not start to build process yet but which is an important preparation.
And once this is done you're ready to also build your app for Android.
And I was.
Now the difference between publishing and building is that publishing just pushes your code and configuration
to exports servers and you can then scan the barcode with the expo client and so on.
Building means that you'll leverage expos cloud build service to really build an Android app bundle
or an ISIS IPA file.
These are the files which you then upload to the app stores thereafter so there is a huge difference
here noticed bundles which you build.
As mentioned before include the expo client.
So to say they include this as a wrapper around your app but it's a real native app there for after
all.
So it's a native app with just as little extra tiny wrapper around it.
Taking into account the configuration you set up here for example regarding the permissions.
In addition these apps which you build on exposed servers which you then can distribute through the
app stores will talk to expos servers for you over the air updating functionality so you will still
just publish new updates with Expo published thereafter and your standalone apps which are running on
other devices will get these published updates.
So publishing is still important even if you're building standalone apps if you're building app bundles
because these app bundles will continue to talk to export servers to get new versions.
But speaking of that how do we build these panels.
Now you do this with the expo build command and there you have built coal and Android and built coal
and Iowa.
Well let's start with build coal and Android and as the name suggests this builds an app for Android.
You can learn all about the standalone build process in the building standalone apps Expo docs which
you all to find attached here and there you find the basic configuration you need and what you should
take into account their for Android here you find that you all are right now at least can choose whether
you want to build an API K or app bundle file building an app bundle file is recommended because that
is the preferred format.
Google once and for this you can run instead of just Expo build Android you run Expo build Android dash
t app add dash bundle if you now had entered this will in the end validate your setup and then push
your code queue exposed cloud build servers where this will now be scheduled.
Now first of all it will ask you because apps need to be signed.
That happens with a private public key pair which in the end is used to identify us.
You offer off the app future updates of the app.
And with that I don't mean updates which you published to expose servers with the expo published command.
But when you rebuilt the app when you rebuilt the package which you then reapplied to the app stores
which you'll occasionally need to do if you for example change the icon or something else which can't
be shared with Expo publish.
In such cases you need to sign the update with the same keys you used for creating the original app
to identify USDA offer.
Otherwise the app store will deny does update it will not accept your next words off the app so therefore
you need to sign your app and if you know what you're doing you can create and upload your own keys
store.
But here I will stick to version 1 and let Expo handle that.
Which means it will create such a key for assigning and do all the signing stuff for you on their servers.
So that's what I choose here
now with that ID again builds the app justice for publishing and even though I'm building Android app
it still builds it for I w here because in the end what it does here is it publishes the app so let's
wait for this to finish now it's just doing the same as export published it.
But there after it will schedule this to be built on exposed service.
So now publishing is done and now it schedules such a build and it queues it up.
By the way is a process you can now quit as it says here you can always check the status of your build
by entering this you are.
You'll need to log in with your export account there and then you can see the build status.
Now important.
This build can take very long.
The build itself not so much but until your build is built because it's scheduled.
Keep in mind that this is a free service.
So of course it's not built immediately but when the exposed servers have room for it.
This can take a couple of minutes even hours until that happens.
So don't worry if that takes some time you can always check this you well which you're seeing in your
command line to see what's happening so you can quit this.
This is all of the you are L where you will later find the built files.
So here's my build status if we check it you see it's cute.
And right now nothing else is happening.
We can revisit this later to see the build process and download it to finished our panel and for now
let's do the same for hours they offer.
This can be done by running Expo build.
IOW no important to build ISIS apps you need a paid Apple Developer account.
That's a must have.
So you will need to go to developer dot apple dot com and there you will need to log in with your Apple
I.D. and then basically get such a paid accounts you will need to add your credit card and pay a fee
of ninety nine dollars that is required.
There is no way around that.
Apple requires that for you to build apps which you want to publish during stores.
You don't need that during development.
But now for sharing the app you need to have that.
It's basically a fee that's there to only allow people to the store who have at least some kind of Syria's
gold stare I guess.
So make sure you sign in here and set up your paid Apple Developer account to join the Apple Developer
Program and thereafter you can run this command.
It will ask you to log in with your apple developer account so you log in with your Apple I.D. and password
and that data will not be stored on expos servers.
No worries.
But it needs it to set up everything to build your app because for the Apple build process you need
special certificates and so on which it can request on your behalf with this data.
Once you did log in it asks you how you want to handle your credentials justice before if you don't
know what you're doing you should let Expo handle all of that because as I mentioned you need a couple
of special certificates to in the end build your ISIS app and expo can request all of that for you and
said all set up for use all live export duties for all these steps.
And now it will basically do all that for you.
Now this cell also builds my app here for us and publishes it again first.
That's the same we did before for Android and now we also got a build scheduled for just justice before
does this cued up you can quit that and just watch your build here in the browser.
So now we don't just have that cued up Android build but we also have that cued up IOW build and both
will take a while until they're finished.
Now there is one important thing you also have to do after this android build is done which it isn't
yet.
You should run Expo fetch colon Android colon key store.
Again this only works after the build completed because this will then fetched is automatically generated
key store which Expo generates for you if you chose that in the setup which you need for future updates
of this app you will definitely need that and in future updates when you rebuild the app.
You then have to choose that you provide your own key stored and you need to provide this key stored
in.
So entered a path to this key store which you then download.
So this command will in the end download a file generated on exposed servers which you need to store
on your system for future update of the same app.
Otherwise you'll not be able to update.
So that's some important command you'll need to run once the spill is done well and with that let's
wait for it to be finished.
ISIS actually is already building Android is still queued up.
But ISIS is already on the go.
So let's wait for the Iaw Bill to finish and now it is it's done.
Now my IAW build is done.
Now you can also check your official docs on how you can continue with testing this on your device or
simulator or then go to the part where you upload the app to the Apple App Store and Google Play store.
So we built the app.
Now you can upload it by running Expo upload colon Iowa's this will by default use your latest app and
upload it to the app store.
Now it's the part which I will not do here because I don't really want to publish this app here but
it is what you would now do.
It would use this application which was just built here for ISIS or for Android.
Andrew Bolt is now also running as a seasoned would use this and then published as ever with this command
to ISIS or with this command to the Android to the Google Play store.
Now follow these steps you find here in the docs to create the appropriate accounts and setup everything
correctly so that this command can succeed.
And with that you will have your app deployed the Apple App Store and to the Google Play store so that
you can well get your app to any user around the world as a standalone app not dependent on the export
client being installed on the devices which is pretty neat.